Week 1 Check In (2/10/2025)

2/10/2025 Check In
1a. Weekly mentor meeting attendance (for missing members, provide reason):

Everyone attended

1b. Was there a good discussion/Did you get your questions answered/requests responded to?

Yes, it was a good discussion and we were able to brainstorm multiple extensions that we could add to the project. We got our questions answered.

1c. Any issues with the mentor communication?

No issues

2a. Team working meeting attendance (for missing members, provide reason):

Everyone attended

2b. Was there a discussion on the work?

We discussed preliminary steps, such as looking at the codebase, testing their web app, and avenues of research we can pursue. We will look into alternative methods and models for embedding, retrieval, ranking, and answer generation techniques as the previous semester noted that their solution was expensive and not very efficient.

2c. Did you have a project management component? Did you make progress? Does everyone know what to do next?

We have our preliminary steps laid out but would like to understand last semester’s project better before breaking down our initial tasks.

2d. Any challenges or roadblocks?

The demo for the previous semester is giving an error. We need LangChain and Pinecone API keys.

3. Any questions/feedback?

N/A

First meetings only:

   1. Is the project goal/plan over the semester clear?
 Stil deciding, we are finding some new techniques that would be faster. 

   2. What’s your current knowledge level on this project’s theme on a scale of 1-5? (1 being completely new to the topic)

Brianna (2) - I have experience with NLP and LLMs from Applied Deep Learning, but have not worked with RAG before.

Dai (2) - same as Brianna, learned about LLM only from ADL class last semester. 

   3. Have you selected a captain? How are you discussing who’s learning or working on the different aspects and technologies of the project?

Yes, we’ve selected Xiqian Yuan as our captain. First, we want to understand the work from the previous semester before assigning specific tasks.

   4. Have you set up the Github repository yet?

Yes, we have access to the Github repository. https://github.com/mohammadm1985/capstone-2025-spring/tree/main
https://github.com/engie4800/dsi-capstone-spring-2025-TD-gen-ai 

   5. Are the mentors engaged and responsive?

Yes, our mentor (Mohammad) was engaged and responsive. Daniel is on vacation for the next two weeks.
