TD Bank Group – Q1 2022 Earnings Call Transcript – March 3, 2022 Page 1 of 23 - - Q 1 2 0 2 2 EARNINGS CONFERENCE CALL 3 , 20 2 2 FORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS TRANSCRIPT IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE TORONTO-DOMINION BANK’S (“TD”) Q1 2022 EARNINGS CONFERENCE CALL A ND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MA DE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, T HERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALL. IN NO WAY ON TD’S WEB SITE OR IN TH IS TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE WEBCAST (AVAILABLE AT T D.COM/INVESTOR) ITSELF AND TD’S REGULATORY FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. FORWARD - LOOKING INFORMATION From time to time, the Bank (as defined in this document) makes written and/or oral forward-l ooking statements, including in this document, in other filings with Canadian regulators or the United States (U.S.) Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), and in other com munications. In addition, representatives of the Bank may make forward-looking statements orally to analysts, investors, the media and ot hers. All such statements are made pursuant to the “safe harbour” provisions of, and are intended to be forward-l ooking statements under, app licable Canadian and U.S. securities legislation, including the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-lo oking statements include, but are not limited to, statements made in this document, the Management’s Discussion and Analysis (“2021 MD &A”) in the Bank’s 2021 Annual Report under the headings “Economic Summary and Outlook” and “The Bank’s Response to COVID-19”, under the headings “Key Priorities for 2022” and “Operating Environment and Outlook” for the Canadian Retail, U.S. Retail, and Wholesale Banking s egments, and under the heading “Focus for 2022” for the Corporate segment, and in other statements regarding the Bank’s objectives and pr iorities for 2022 and beyond and strategies to achieve them, the regulatory environment in which the Bank operates, the Bank’s anticipated finan cial performance, and the potential economic, financial and other impacts of the Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-1 9). Forward- looking statements are typically identified by words such as “will”, “would”, “should”, “believe”, “expect”, “anticipate”, “inten d”, “estimate”, “plan”, “goal”, “target”, “may”, and “could”. By their very nature, these forward-looking statements require the Bank to make assumptions and are subject to inherent risks and un certainties, general and specific. Especially in light of the uncertainty related to the physical, financial, economic, political, and regulatory env ironments, such risks and uncertainties – many of which are beyond the Bank’s control and the effects of which can be difficult to predict – m ay cause actual results to differ materially from the expectations expressed in the forward-l ooking statements. Risk factors that could ca use, individually or in the aggregate, such differences include: strategic, credit, market (including equity, commodity, fore ign exchange, interest rate, and credit spreads), operational (including technology, cyber security, and infrastructure), model, insurance, liquidity, capital adequacy, legal, regulatory compliance and conduct, reputational, environmental and social, and other risks. Example s of such risk factors in clude the economic, financial, and other impacts of pandemics, including the COVID-1 9 pandemic; general business and economic c onditions in the regions in which the Bank operates; geopolitical risk; the ability of the Bank to execute on long-t erm strategies and shorter term key strategic priorities, including the successful completion of acquisitions and dispositions, business retention plans, and strategic pl ans; technology and cyber security risk (including cyber-a ttacks or data security breaches) on the Bank’s information technology, internet, net work access or other voice or data communications systems or services; model risk; fraud activity; the failure of third part ies to comply with their obligations to the Bank or its affiliates, including relating to the care and control of information, and other risks arising from the ank’s use of third-party service providers; the impact of new and changes to, or application of, current laws and regulations, including wit hout limitation tax laws, capital guidelines and liquidity regulatory guidance and the bank recapitalization “bail-i n” regime; regulatory oversight and compliance risk; increased competition from incumbents and new entrants (including Fintechs and big technology competitors); shifts in consumer attitudes and disruptive technology; exposure related to significant litigation and regulatory matters; a bility of t he Bank to attract, develop, and retain key talent; changes to the Bank’s credit ratings; changes in currency and interest rates (including the p ossibility of negative interest rates); increased funding costs and market volatility due to market illiquidity and competitio n for funding; Interbank Offered Rate (IBOR) transition risk; critical accounting estimates and changes to accounting standards, policies, and methods used by the Bank; existing and potential international debt crises; environmental and social risk (including climate change); and the occurrence of n atural and unnatural catastrophic events and claims resulting from such events. The Bank cautions that the preceding list is not exhaustive of all possible risk factors and other factors could also adversely affect the Bank’s results. For more detailed information, pl ease refer to the “R isk Factors and Management” section of the 2021 MD&A, as may be updated in subsequently filed quarterly reports to shareholders and new s releases (as applicable) related to any events or transactions discussed under the heading “Significant Acquisitions” or “Significant and ubsequent Events and Pending Acquisitions” in the relevant MD&A, which applicable releases may be found on www.td.com. All such fa ctors, as well as other uncertainties and potential events, and the inherent uncertainty of forward-looking statements, should be con sidered carefully when making decisions with respect to the Bank. The Bank cautions readers not to place undue reliance on the Bank’s fo rward looking statements. Mat erial economic assumptions underlying the forward-l ooking statements contained in this document are set out in the 2021 MD&A under the headings “Economic Summary and Outlook” and “The Bank’s Response to COVID-1 9”, under the headings “Key Priorities for 2022” and “O perating Environment and Outlook” for the Canadian Retail, U.S. Retail, and Wholesale Banking segments, and under the heading “Focus fo r 2022” for the Corporate segment, each as may be updated in subsequently filed quarterly reports to shareholders. Any forward-looking statements contained in this document represent the views of management only as of the date hereof and are presented fo r the purpose of assisting the Bank’s shareholders and analysts in understanding the Bank’s financial position, objectiv es and priorities and ant icipated financial performance as at and for the periods ended on the dates presented, and may not be appropriate for other purposes. Th e Bank does not undertake to update any forward-l ooking statements, whether written or oral, that may be made from time to time by or on it s behalf, except as required under applicable securities legislation.
TD Bank Group – Q1 2022 Earnings Call Transcript – March 3, 2022 Page 2 of 23 Bharat Masrani TD Bank Group – Group President and CEO Ajai Bambawale TD Bank Group – Group Head and Chief Risk Officer Kelvin Tran TD Bank Group – Chief Financial Officer Mi chael Rhodes TD Bank Group – Group Head, Canadian Personal Banking aul Douglas TD Bank Group – Group Head, Canadian Business Banking aymond Chun TD Bank Group – Group Head, Wealth and Insurance Leo Salom TD Bank Group – President and CEO, TD Bank America's Most Convenient Bank iaz Ahmed TD Bank Group – Group Head, Wholesale Banking Brooke Hales TD Bank Group – Head of Investor Relations Gabriel Dechaine ational Bank Financial – Analyst John Aiken Barclays Capital Canada – A nalyst Mike Rizvanovic Stifel Nicolaus Canada – Analyst Meny Grauman Scotia Capital – Analyst Ebrahim Poonawala BofA Securities – Analyst Paul Holden CIBC World Markets – Analyst Nigel D'Souza Veritas Investment Research – Analyst Sohrab Movahedi MO Capital Markets – Analyst Scott Chan Canaccord Genuity – Analyst
TD Bank Group – Q1 2022 Earnings Call Transcript – March 3, 2022 Page 3 of 23 - Brooke Hales – TD – Head of Investor Relations Thank you, operator. Good afternoon, an d welcome to TD Bank Group's first quarter 2022 investor pres entation. We will begin today's presentation with remarks from Bharat Masrani; the bank's CEO. After whi ch, Kelvin Tran, the bank's CFO, will present our first quarter o perating results. Ajai Bambawale, Chief isk Officer, will then offer comments on credit quality. After which, we will invite questions from prequalified anal ysts and investors on the phone. Also present today to answer your questions are Michael Rhodes, Group Head, Canadi an Personal Banking; Paul Douglas, Group Head, Canadian Business Banking; R aymond Chun, Group Head, Wealth and Insurance; Leo Salom, President and CEO, TD Bank, America's Most Convenient Bank; and Riaz Ahmed, Group Head, Wholesale Banking. Please turn to Slide 2. At this time, I would like to caution our listeners that this presentation contains forward- looking statements, that there are risks that actual results could differ materially from what is discussed and that certain material fac tors or assumpt ions were applied in making these forward- looking statements. Any forward- looking statements contained in this presentation represent the views of management and are presented for the pur pose of assisting the bank's shareholders and analysts in understanding the bank's financial position, objectives and priorities and anticipated financial performance. Forward- look ing statements may not be appro priate for other purposes. I would also like to remind listeners that the bank uses non- GA AP financial measures, such as adjusted res ults, to assess each of its businesses and to measure overall bank performance. The bank believes that adjus ted results provide readers with a better understanding of how m anagement views the bank's per formance. Bharat will be referring to adjusted results in his remarks. Additional information on items of note, the bank's use of non-GA AP and other financial measures, the bank's reported res ults and factors and assumptions related to forward-look ing information are all available in our Q1 2022 Report to Shareholders. With that, let me turn the presentation over to Bharat. Bh arat Masrani – TD – Group President and CEO Thank you, Brooke. And thank you, everyone, for joining us today. I’d like to welcome Michael Rhodes, Group Head, Canadian Personal Banking, and Leo Salom, President and CEO, TD Ban k America's Most Conv enient Bank, who are joining us for the first time. We are a lso including two additional participants on the call beginning this quarter – P aul Douglas, who leads Canadian Business Banking, and Ray Chun, who lea ds Wealth and Insurance. They are here to answer more specific questions you may have about their busi nesses and results. Before we review the quarter, I want to once again express to all Ukrainians arou nd the world and across our footprint our sincere hope that the violence will come to an end as soon as possible. To help support humani tarian efforts, we have donated more than a qu arter million dollars to agencies who are on- the gr ound providing urgent care to the people of Ukraine. TD customers can make donations to the Canadian ed Cross in our branches in Canada – and soon, to the American Red Cross in our U.S. stores. Together, our c ollective efforts can make a real difference. Let me now turn to our first quarter performance. Q1 was a great quarter for TD. Earnings were $3.8 billion, and EPS was $2.08 – up 13 and 14 per cent, respectively, from the first quarter of last year. Revenue increased across our retail and wholesale segmen ts, as customers and clients brought us more of their business, and PCL remained low, reflecting good c redit performance against the backdrop of an improving economic outlook.
TD Bank Group – Q1 2022 Earnings Call Transcript – March 3, 2022 Page 4 of 23 - Reflecting these strong results, our CET 1 ratio ended the quarter a t 15.2 per cent, including a 17- basis point impact from the repurchase of 7.5 million common shares during the quarter. ur proven business model – anchored by our diversified business mix, North American scale, and risk discipline – has enabled us to continue to invest in transforming the Bank for the digital age. his quarter, we announced an acceleration of our strate gy to establish an enterprise level data platform on Microsoft Azure. This initiative to modernize our d ata infrastructure, which includes a multi -y ear agreement with Databricks to unlock data at scale, will further enhance our analytical capabilities and del iver richer insights – driving better customer experiences and enabling colleagues to collaborate with mor e agility across the Bank. We are also investing in our colleagues, building on our brand as an employer of choice for top technology t alent. We are hiring for more than 2,000 technology roles in 2022 to drive investments that will help power t he future of banking, with a focus on skills in cloud, ma chine learning and automation. As we continue to ev olve the colleague and customer expe rience, growing and empowering skilled technology talent will r emain a cornerstone of our forward-f ocused strategy. Let me now turn to each of our businesses and review some highlights from Q1. ur Canadian Retail segment earned $2.3 billion, delivering record revenue and earnings. The Personal Bank had a strong quarter. In our real estate secured lending business, we have been encouraged by the ear ly response to the introduction of our popular FlexLine hybrid lending product into the broker channel in anuary. Our Cards business is performing very well. Balances rose year -over-year for the first time since Q1 2020, and card retail sales were up 23% year -over-year. Our customers are hig hly engaged with our l oyalty programs – including our Amazon Shop with Points offer, where we've seen approximately 2 million r edemptions to date. Even as we continued to grow personal deposits, we took market share in mutual funds, as we leveraged our One TD strategy to help more Canadians meet their long-term investing goals. And we strengthened our New to Canada offering, bundling a digitally convenien t way to send money to ov er 200 countries via our award- w inning TD Global Transfer service. Since launch, we have seen i ncreased customer acquisition and volume growth, with over 200,000 customers conducting more than 1.8 mi llion transfers to da te. It was also a very strong quarter for the Business Bank, with double digit growth in both loans an d deposits. I n our Wealth business, revenue increased 7 per cent, as strong net asset gr owth and mutual fund sales helped offset a moderation in Direct Investin g trading volumes. Our Web roker platform again took top spot among Canadian Banks in the Globe & Mail's annual ranking of digital br okers. And we are excited to have extended those capabilities into a fully mobile environment with the l aunch of the TD Easy Trade app this quarter. We have seen strong take- u p of the app, which is designed t o make investing simpler for new and emerging investors. urning to the U.S., our U.S. Retail Bank earned US$806 million in Q1, an increase of 31% year-ov er-year. Commercial loan origination volumes improved, with mid- single digit growth in middle market, offset by continued PPP run- off and lower com mercial real estate exposures. Line of credit utilization rates also i ncreased modestly quarter-over-quarter.This quarter, we piloted a next generation digital platform for U.S. commercial clients, providing them with an end-to-end view of their relationship with TD, including access to treasury app lications and the ability t o transact ac ross products. We also announced additional enha ncements to our overdraft policies. These build on the changes we introduced last August, including the launch of TD Essential Banking – a l ow-cost deposit account designed to meet the needs of unbanked
TD Bank Group – Q1 2022 Earnings Call Transcript – March 3, 2022 Page 5 of 23 or underbanked households. The latest enhancements are intended to help customers better manage their acc ounts and make informed financial choices. And we continue to see good take- up of our Double Up Credit Card. Double Up has become a primary driver of new bankcard acco unts for the U.S. Retail Bank, w ith almost 100,000 accounts added to date since its launch last spring. And with the contri bution from our inv estment in Schwab of US$200 million, US Retail segment earnings were US$1.0 billion this quarter. Let m e turn briefly to our announcement this week of the agreement to acquire of First Horizon, headquartered in Memphis, Tennessee. I w as in T ennessee this w eek meeting with First Horizon associates, and I was incredibly impressed with the talented people I met and with their passion for their cus tomers and communities. Regar ding our U.S. aspirations, for years I have been sharing – on thes e calls and elsewhere – that one of our goals is to expand in the fast-growing Southeast of the United States. This week, we delivered on that promi se with the announcement o f our agreement to acquire First Horizon. Upon closing, we will achieve lea dership positions in key markets, strengthen our presence in states such as Florida and the Carolinas, and gain footholds in the large Georgia and Texas markets. And as you heard on Monday, First Horizon's banking centres are located in markets whose populations are projected to grow 50% faster than the U.S. nati onal average. First Horizon is a fantastic bank. Customer -cent ric. Deeply committed to the communities in which they operat e. And focused on growth. Just like TD. With this acquisition, we extend our reach, acquire new commercial and specialty banking capabilitie s, add over 400 branches and expand to serve 1.1 million more c ustomers. And, as we said on Monday, we expect to achieve US$610 million in annual cost synergies. The main dri vers of these savings are expected to be technology and vendor costs – as w e reap the benefit of scale across our platforms and vendor relationships – and corporate real estate. With overall bank costs across the industry migrating to the center and away from the branch network over the past few years, the benefits of c onsolidation are increasingly achievable in market -adjac ent deals without significant impacts to the front-line. As outlined in our First Horizon Investor Presentation, this transaction is expected to deliver 10%- pl us fully -synergized adjusted EPS accretion in fiscal 2023 – and t he deal is immediately accretive to adjus ted EPS at closing. Thi s transaction is: Strategically compelling, f in ancially attractive, within our risk appetite, a nd cu lturally aligned. First Horizon is a terrific fit for TD and will enable us to further accelerate our growth in the US. Let me now return to our Q1 results. In Wholesale Banking, earnings were $434 million this quarter. Business activity and markets remained robust , resulting in strong revenue performance and continued lower PCL. Our U.S. dollar stra tegy and i nvestments continued to bear fruit and have contributed significantly to revenue growth over the last 3 year s. In a ddition, TD Securities won several ke y mandates in the quarter. In Canada, we acted as joint lea d bookrunner on Nestle's inaugural Canadian dollar offering, a successful $2 billion dollar issuance. Securities continued to demonstrate its advisory and financing capabilities in the sustainable fi nance space, acting as advisor to Clearwa y Energy on its US$1.9 billion sale of Clearway Community Energy to KKR.
TD Bank Group – Q1 2022 Earnings Call Transcript – March 3, 2022 Page 6 of 23 - - Further reflecting our commitment to embed ESG principles across our business, this quarter TD Securities' debt capital markets team partnered with a syndicate of underwriters, the majority of which were diverse ow ned businesses, to lead a US$500 million green bond offering by TD Bank. This offering was the first t ime that a syndicate group for a Canadian bank bond offering included minority -, women- and veteran ow ned businesses as active joint boo krunners. And this was just one of the deals making up a record quar ter for our debt capital markets team in Financial Institutions, which participated in underwriting almost $40 billion of investment grade debt for the sector. Overall, as I reflect on ou r performance this quarter, I am pleased with our strong start to fiscal 2022 and enc ouraged by the mom entum in our businesses. It's been two years since the COVID -19 pandemic transformed the way we w ork and live. While there are still challenges ahead – including inflation, labor mar ket and supply chain pressures, and serious geopolitical tensions – macroeconomic conditions remain positive as we evolve our approach to COVID-19 a nd economies recover. W ith the strength of our business model and balance sheet, we remain well-positioned to continue executing on our growth strategies. At the same time, we know the impact of the pandemic has not been evenly distributed. In particular, it has disrupted education across North America – and the transition to alternative ways of teaching has created c hallenges for both students and teachers du e to uneven imp lementation and un equal ac cess to technology. That's why the focus of the 2021 TD Ready Challenge was on supporting innovative solutions t o address predicted learning loss in math and reading for disproportionately impacted students in grades -12. This quarter, we were pleased to announce $10 million in grants to fifteen organizations to help them develop i nnovative solutions to address these inequities. We are also promoting equitable and inclusive innovation through TD Lab's new Equity, Diversity & Inclusion Resource Hub, a platform to support the i nclusion of the unique perspectives and experiences of different community groups into the development, design and build of our products and services. This platform ha s been piloted with success and we look f orward to leveraging it more broadly. We also continue to focus on inclusion and diversity across the Bank, most recently through a series of well-attended Black History Month events and initiatives. D's commitment to diversity and inclusion – and environmental, social and governance initiatives more broadly – continues to receive recognition. This q uarter, we were proud to be recognized with an "S&P lobal Silver Class" distinction in the 2022 S&P Global Sustainability Yearbook, one of the most comprehensive annual publications on the state of corporate responsibility – the only North American bank t o carry the S&P Global Gold or Silver Class distinctions. Our strategy is centered on our vision, purpose and shared commitments. And I’d like to thank our 90,000 bank ers across the globe who bring those commitm ents to life every day. Their hard work, dedication and s trong performance sustains and strengthens our winning culture. ith that, I'll turn things over to Kelvin. Kelvin Tran – TD – Chief Financial Officer Thank you, Bharat. Good afternoon, everyone, and please turn to Slide 10. This quarter, the bank reported ear nings of $3.7 billion and earnings per share of $2.02, up -- bot h up 14%. Adjusted earnings were $3.8 bi llion and adjusted earnings per share was $2.08, up 13% and 14%, respectively. Revenue increased 4%, r eflecting higher volumes and fee- based revenue in the banking and wealth b usinesses and higher
TD Bank Group – Q1 2022 Earnings Call Transcript – March 3, 2022 Page 7 of 23 insurance volumes, partly offset by our normalization in direct i nvesting trading activity and lower retail margi ns. Provision for credit losses was $72 million. Expenses increased 3% year-over-year, reflecting higher spend supporting business growth and higher employee- rel ated ex penses, partially of fset by prior year store optimization costs and the impact of foreign exchange translation. Adjusted expenses also increased 3%. The r etailer partners' net share of the profit from the U.S. strategic card portfolio did not have a notable impact on ex pense growth this quarter as PCL was stable across both periods. Absent the partners' share, adjusted expense growth was 3% year-over-year or 3.7% ex FX. For the same reason, the accounting for the U.S. st rategic card portfolio had only a minimal impact on pretax pre- pr ovision earnings and operating leverage this quarter. Slide 24 shows how we calculate total bank PTPP and operating lever age removing this impact, alo ng with the impact of foreign currency translation and the insurance fair value change . Total bank PTPP w as up 6% year -over-year before these modifications and 7% after reflecting strong volume growth. PTP P was up 6% quarter- over-quarter on both measures, mainly reflecting higher wholesale trading- re lated revenue. Please turn to Slide 11. Canadian Retail net income for the quarter was $2.3 billion, up 11% year-over-y ear. Revenue increased 6%, reflecting higher fee- based revenue in the banking and wealth businesses and higher loan, deposit and ins urance volumes, partially offset by lower direct investing transaction volumes and lower margins. Average loa n volumes rose 9%, reflecting 8% growth in personal volumes and 14% grow th i n business volumes. Average deposits rose 9%, including 7% growth in personal volumes, 13% growth in business volumes and 9% gr owth in wealth deposits. Wealth assets increased 14%. et interest margin was 2.53%, down 4 basis points compared to the prior quarter, reflecting lower loan mar gins. Total PCL of $33 million declined $20 million sequentially. Total PCL as an annualized percentage of c redit volume was 0.03%, down 1 basis point sequentially. Insurance claims decreased 3% year-over-y ear, primarily reflecting a decrease in the fair value of investments supporting claims liabilities, which resulted in a s imilar decrease in noninterest income, partially offset by more severe weather-related events. Non-interest expenses increased 8% year -over-year, reflecting higher spend supportin g business growth, inc luding technology and marketing costs and higher employee -rel ated expenses and variable compensation. Please turn to Slide 12. U. S. Retail segment reported net income for the quarter was USD 1 billion, up 30% year -over-y ear. U.S. Retail Bank net income was USD 806 million, up 31%, primarily reflecting higher revenue, lower PCL and low er noninterest expenses. Revenue increased 6% year -over-y ear, reflecting higher deposit volumes and margi ns and increased earnings on the investment portfolio and higher fee income from rising customer act ivity, partly offset by lower loan margins. Av erage loan volumes decreased 6% year -over-year, reflecting an 11% decline in bu siness loans, primarily due to PPP loan forgiveness and paydowns on commercial loans. Personal volumes were flat. Average deposit volumes, excluding sweep deposits, were up 13% year -over-y ear. Personal deposits were up 15%, including 21% growth in consumer checking. Business deposits were up 12%. Sweep deposits declined 6%. Net interest margin was 2.21%, flat sequentially as the impact of lower accelerated fee amortization from PPP for giveness was offset by higher deposit margins and increased earnings on the investment portfolio. On S lide 28, we've continued our disclosure on the impact of the PPP program. This quarter, PPP revenue cont ributed approximately USD 65 million to net interest income and 10 basis points to NIM. We expect most of this benefit to be realized by the second quarter of this year. Total PCL was USD 17 million, up $79 million
TD Bank Group – Q1 2022 Earnings Call Transcript – March 3, 2022 Page 8 of 23 - sequentially. The U.S. Retail net PCL ratio, including only the bank's share of PCL for the U.S. strategic cards port folio, as an annualized percentage of credit volume was 0.04%, higher by 19 bas is points sequentially. Expenses decreased 4% year -over-y ear, primarily reflecting prior year store optimization costs of USD 76 mil lion and productivity savings in the current year, partly offset by higher employee- r elated expenses and investments in the business. The contribution from TD's investment in Schwab was USD 200 million, up 24% fr om a year ago. Please turn to Slide 13. Wholesale net income for the quarter was $434 million, a decrease of 1% year -over-y ear, reflecting higher revenue and lower PCL, offset by higher noninterest expenses. Revenue was $1.3 billion, up 3% year -over year, primarily reflecting robust client activity and markets. PC L for the quarter was a recovery of $5 million c ompared with the recovery of $77 million in the prior quarter. Expenses inc reased 7% year -over-y ear, primarily reflecting higher employee-related costs and continued investment in the Whol esale Banking's U.S. dollar strategy, including the investments in TD Securities Automated Trading, the electronic fix ed income trading business we acquired from Headlands last year. Pl ease turn to Slide 14. The corporate segment reported a net loss of $227 million in the quarter compared with the r eported net loss of $197 million in the first quarter last year. The year -over-y ear increase reflects a lower contribution from other items, partially offset by lower net corporate expenses. The decrease in other items primarily reflects low er revenue from treasury and balance sheet management activities this quarter. Adjusted net loss for the quart er was $127 m illion compared with an adjusted net loss of $94 million in the first quarter last year. P lease turn to Slide 15. The c ommon equity Tier 1 ratio ended the quarter at 15.2%, flat sequentially. We had strong organ ic capital generation this quarter, which added 45 basis points to CET1 capital. This was offset by the repurchase of 7. 5 million common shares under our share buyback program, higher RWA and a reduction in the scalar for I's transitional adjustment for ECL, reclassified from Tier 2 to CET1 capital, which declined to 25% from 50% effective this quarter. RWA increased 2% quarter -over-quar ter, mainly reflecting higher credit risk and market risk RWA. Credit risk RWA increased $7 billion or 2%, mainly reflecting higher volumes, partly offset by a decrease in U.S. Retail RWA due to a para meter update for the nonretail portfolio. Market risk RWA increased $2.8 billion or 17%, reflecting higher wholesale exposure. The leverage ratio was 4.4% this quarter, and the LCR ratio was 124%, both well above regulatory minimums. will now turn the call over to Ajai. Ajai Bambawale – TD – Group Head and Chief Risk Officer Okay. Thank you, Kelvin, and good afternoon, everyone. Please turn to Slide 16. Gr oss impaired loan formations inc reased 5 basis points quarter-over-qu arter to 16 basis points driven by U. S. Commercial, primarily related to gover nment-guaranteed Paycheck Protection Program loans, which are now largely resolved; U.S. RESL, reflecting loans exiting deferral programs and some early signs of cr edit normalization, including the reemergence of seasonal trends in the U.S. card and auto portfolios. Pl ease turn to Slide 17. Gross impaired loans were stable quarter-over-quar ter at 33 basis points, remaining at cyclically low levels. Please turn to Slide 18.
TD Bank Group – Q1 2022 Earnings Call Transcript – March 3, 2022 Page 9 of 23 Recall that our presentation reports PCL ratios both gross and net of the partner share of the U.S. st rategic card PCLs. We remind you that PCLs recorded in the corporate segment are fully absorbed by our part ners and do not impact the bank's net income. The b ank recorded provisions of $72 million this quarter compared with a recovery of $123 million last quarter. The quar ter-over-q uarter increase reflects hig her impaired PCLs rising from a cyclical low in the prior quarter, coupled with a smaller performing al lowance release this quarter. Please turn to Slide 19. The ba nk's impaired PCL was $329 million, increasing by $109 million quarter-ove r-quarter, reflecting s ome normalization of credit performance, including the reemergence of seasonal trends in the U.S. card and aut o portfolios. Performing PCL was a recovery of $257 million compared to a recovery of $343 million last quarter. The current quarter recovery reflects additional allowance releases across all segmen ts. Please turn to Slide 20. The allowance for credit losses decreased $107 million quarter-over-q uarter to $7.1 billion or 93 basis points, reflecting a more favorable economic outlook, partially offset by the impact of foreign exchange. The ba nk's allowance coverage remains elevated from pre-C OVID levels given ongoing uncertainty that could affect the economic trajectory and the ultimate credit impact of the pandemic. In summary, the bank exhi bited strong credit performance again this quarter, with key credit metrics remaining at or near cy clically low levels. However, as expected, early signs of credit normalization are emerging, including modest ly higher early delinquencies and impairments in certain portfolios and more typical consumer behavior, including higher seasonal spending. While credit results may vary by quarter, I continue to expect PCLs to be higher for fiscal '22, increasing from unsustainably low levels last year as credit conditions continue to normalize. To c onclude, TD remains well positioned given we are adequately provisioned, we have a strong capital position, and we have a business that is broadly diversified across products and geographies. With that, operator, we are now ready to begin the Q&A session. Operator [Operator Instructions] Our first question is from Meny Grauman from Scotiabank. Meny G rauman – Scotia Capital – Analyst I just wanted to ask about RESL growth in Canada. Year -over-y ear, it's underperforming the peer group. And then when I look, that gap opened up early in the pandemic . It looks like it has actually widened rec ently. So, I'm wondering, as you look at that, what is your assessment of what's driving and what's the reas on for that. Mich ael Rhodes – T D – Group Head, Canadian Personal Banking kay. Meny, this is Michael Rhodes. Nice to meet over the phone at least. So, your question about RESL, first, it's interesting when you look at the numbers and you see almost 9% RESL growth and from what I can s ee, was elsewhere in the market. I think that was pretty good. But the truth of the matter is we do have an opportunity and we do expect to do better. And in terms of why, our bra nch network, I think everyone knows, has been a historic source of strength. And this was clearly dis proportionately impacted during COVID. But then coming out of COVID, we do look to create momentum i n all channels, and that's why I said we expect to do better. As ours return to normal, as our mobile mort gage specialist productivity continues to improve, and we are seeing im provement, and as we continue
TD Bank Group – Q1 2022 Earnings Call Transcript – March 3, 2022 Page 10 of 23 to invest in training, operations, account management, and again, we've see n improvements in account manage ment and retention, and see the benefits of the recent product enhancements, such as Fl exLine in the brokerage channel, Bharat had referred to this in his remarks, you will not see any actuals in our financial number s, but we are pleased with what we're seeing there. And so I start off by saying we expect to do bett er, and I'll conclude with that. The ot her comment I would make is if you look over the past year or so and look at the sequential perf ormance, I think you will see some momentum. And it's certainly my job, for new enrollments, my job is to ensure that momentum continues. Meny Grauman – Scotia Capital – Analyst Thanks for that, Mike. And just as a follow-up, is your assessment that part of the issue is , may be, a more cautious approach to risk? Is that something that needs to be fixed or that you've addressed? Mich ael Rhodes – T D – Group Head, Canadian Personal Banking ell, I'm sure you've heard before, we're through the cycle lenders and I think that narrative stays the same today as it has last year and a year from now. Realistically, the closing down and the loss of capacity for the br anch has disproportionately impacted us. We were more reliant. And so, we've been thr ough the cycle len ders, you're going to see us be relatively consistent with our credit approach. Meny Grauman – Scotia Capital – Analyst And then, just in terms of how you approach fixing the problem, you mentioned the FlexLine in the broker channe l. How important is that in order to get you back to the peer range or even above? Mi chael Rhodes – T D – Group Head, Canadian Personal Banking eah. So, we're optimistic that FlexLine, the broker channel will drive some n ice performance on a go- for ward basis. At the end of the day, and I'm new to this call, you would have heard before that we'd like to be in all channels to be everywhere where our customer is. Certainly broker is a channel where we want to be. But I don't want to dismiss the importance of our core Retail franchise, and we expect to see strong performance of our core Retail franchise. And I'd also offer that our mobile mortgage specialist productivity i s improving. And so, we're looking to see performance in all chan nels and improved performance in all channe ls. Broker is one of those and FlexLine will certainly be of help there. Meny Grauman – Scotia Capital – Analyst And just a final one, in terms of timing there, when do you think you'll be able to close that gap with the peer gr oup? Michael Rhodes – T D – Group Head, Canadian Personal Banking eah. So, I might play the new guy card here. I don't want to get too precise on timing. I will just offer that you s hould expect to see continued momentum.
TD Bank Group – Q1 2022 Earnings Call Transcript – March 3, 2022 Page 11 of 23 Gabriel Dechaine – National Bank Financial – A nalyst Hi, good afternoon. My question is for Leo. During the quarter, you made some additional adjustments to t he overdraft fees structure in your business. I'm wondering if you can quantify the potential revenue impact and the timing thereof as you see it. I know there were some changes last August, and at the tim e, you guy s said there was about CAD 40 million to CAD 50 million impact, just wondering what the latest round w ould be? Leo Salom – TD – President and CEO, TD Bank America's Most Convenient Bank abe, thank you very much for the question. Let me just describe very quickly what we actually anno unced on February 1st. We made a series of changes. We changed the minimum threshold by which a client would be charged an overdraft at CAD 50. We indicated that we will implement a 24-hour grace period. We also announced that we're launching real-time alerts to keep clients informed with regards to ov erall balances and overdraft events. And then, finally, we implemented a cap to no more than three ov erdrafts in any given day. We feel that this was an appropriate set of changes. We thought it both gives c lients optionality and convenience. And so, we're comfortable with the changes that we made. To your question about the overall impact, our estimate at this point is that, if I add the changes that we made in 2021 and these most recent changes, the in-y ear impact will be CAD 165 million. And if you annualize that just to get a sense of what the total number would be on an annual basis, give that CAD 250 million, that's about 45% of what our pre-COVID overdraft levels were. Once again, quite comfortable w ith the changes and I think we were trying to be responsive to client needs and certainly to the mar ketplace. Gabriel Dechaine – N ational Bank Financial – A nalyst Great, that's U.S. dollars, I imagine. And is there a timing that you have in mind? It's not as if behavior has changed because some of the changes you introduced were included launching a no overdraft fee products or maybe some switching involved? I don't know if this stuff happens overnight. How do you see it? Leo Salom – TD – President and CEO, TD Bank America's Most Convenient Bank o, Gabe, it's a very good question. We did launch the TD Essential checking account product late last y ear, which is essentially a no-overdraft product. About 10% of all our accounts are now in that product. e think when we talk about optionality between the TD Essential product, as well as these changes that w e made in the introduction of real-time alerts, I really do believe that's giving clients greater control and gr eater options. abriel Dechaine – National Bank Financial – A nalyst Okay. But does this phase in over time or something, just so I can model it? Leo Salom – TD – President and CEO, TD Bank America's Most Convenient Bank o, we actually announced that the CAD 50 threshold, which will trigger not all of the impact, but most of t he impact would go into effect on April 1.
TD Bank Group – Q1 2022 Earnings Call Transcript – March 3, 2022 Page 12 of 23 Gabriel Dechaine – N ational Bank Financial – A nalyst Okay. Now, switching to rate sensitivity. Thanks for putting the slide in there, Kelvin and others I imagine. Wha t we would have called surge deposits, is that included in that sensitivity or do you back that out – the benefit from rising rates? Kelvin Tran – TD – Chief Financial Officer Yeah. So, that includes all deposits. We don't back it out. It's on a constant balance sheet basis. abriel Dechaine – N ational Bank Financial – A nalyst Okay. And then, the last one on the acquisition. The $494 million of pr efs you're buying from First Horizon, 30% of that goes to an employee retention mechanism, and the other 70% goes to what? I'm w ondering if you can kind of help me understand where that money goes. eo Salom – TD – President and CEO, TD Bank America's Most Co nvenient Bank You're right. The first $150 million was really earmarked around retention, which is critically important to us. We want to ensure that we were retaining what is the real asset of First Horizon, which is their bank ers, their frontline staff. And so, that was key. The balance was really a reflection of the fact that we've got a great deal of confidence in the model that First Horizon is pursuing and their organic growth pl ans. And we wanted to facilitate the acceleration of those, whether that's organic b ranch expansion, w hether that's increasing Commercial Banking coverage teams or simply getting after day two enha ncements that would potentially position the firm for a more rapid future integration. o, we're quite comfortable with Brian's discretion to actually execute against those items. I would also s ay maybe just one last point on this, is that we wanted to signal very clearly our commitment to this t ransaction to First Horizon, to the management team and to the 8,000 colleagues that will soon become D colleagues. We do believe this is a world-class franchise and one that will be very additive to TD ank. Bharat Masrani – TD – Group President and CEO Gabe, just on the overdraft system, I think Leo said it, just to clarify, the 10% is on – 10% of new accounts, not all accounts. So, it's just 10% of new accounts. And Gabe, this is memory lane for me. I think you and I talked many, many years ago when I was in the US; product change is just a normal course there. I remember the Durbin Amendment and w e're saying, how much money is that and how to really offset it. I think the key message on how we manage these changes that are relatively regular in the S business, is through growth. One of the main characteristics of TD Bank America's Most Convenient Bank is to have a lot more customers every day than what we had yesterday. So, that's another way to look at it. This TD Essential Banking is 10% of all new accounts now, it carries a fee. So, at some point, al l of these things kind of square up and you march on. So, just want to make sure that some of our hi storic conversations are not forgotten. Gabriel Dechaine – National Bank Financial – A nalyst When I look at the findings here and it shows that overdraft is actually becoming a smaller percentage of t he fee income in the business, so you're doing something else?
TD Bank Group – Q1 2022 Earnings Call Transcript – March 3, 2022 Page 13 of 23 - Bharat Masrani – TD – Group President and CEO Yes. Ebrahim Poonawala – BofA Securities – A nalyst Good afternoon. I guess maybe sticking with you, Leo, on looking at the slide 28, business lending ex PP was fairly weak, and it has been very weak. We saw some strong growth from some of your peers. We've seen strong growth from the US banks. Why are we not seeing the same commercial strength in t he lending book and just your outlook on that business? And also, I would love to hear if you think First Hor izon adds anything on the commercial lending side for TD? eo Salom – TD – President and CEO, TD Bank America's Most Convenient Bank eah. Thank you very much, Ebrahim. Let me just frame a couple of things first. There ar e two primary factors that really point to our performance on a year-on-year basis. As you rightly point out, we are s eeing the unwind of the PPP portfolio. We extended 130,000 PPP loans for nearly CAD 14 billion at a t ime that those clients needed it, and certainly we're very proud of that. But we did over -i ndex. In other w ords, we had a greater percentage of PPP loans as a percent of our Commercial Banking book than bot h our big bank as well as regional competitors. And so, as that's unwinding, that is creating a bit of a structural drag force. Now, that drag is all but expired. We would expect that the majority of that portfolio to be completed by the end of the second quarter. I think the other piece, which we've also worked through is our commercial real estate book. Our c ommercial real estate book did experience lower origination volumes, particularly in the office and retail s pace, and we've seen faster payback activity on that portfolio. We do have a slightly shorter duration in t erms of the overall book than some of our competitors, and that obviously weighed on that portfolio in t his period of time. So, those are two big structural areas that are contributing. I did want to just give you a sense of some of the green shoots that we're experiencing, though, because I t hink it's important to look at it. We experienced a sharp increase in gross loan originations in the first quar ter; in fact, back to above pre-C OVID levels, which is very encouraging. We started seeing a bit of a plateau in terms of line utilization. In fact, we saw a little bit of an increase in the first quarter and that t rend's continuing into the month of February. And in certain lines of businesses, particularly the middle mar ket segment which seems to be reacting a little bit more quickly on a quarter-on -quarter basis, we saw a 5% increase in terms of overall loan balances. So, I'd say it is early, but we are seeing greater demand. nd as I suspect it is, the liquidity conditions in the marketplace continue to stabilize, I would expect that our community banking segment, our middle market, our asset-bas ed lending areas would all see increased activity and loan balance growth through the course of this year. And I'm certainly optimistic t hat's the case. To your point with regards to First Horizon, I do think that First Horizon will absolutely be additive to us f rom a Commercial Banking perspective. Just the geographic attractiveness of the First Horizon footprint, t he capabilities that they have in the commercial, the quality of their Commercial Banking franchise and t hen the abilities for us to potentially overlay, whether that be TD Securities, whether that be just our bal ance sheet and giving them the ability to be a ranger and a lead on more transactions or simply some of the combinations in the vertical categories, I think all that will be very attractive and very additive to our c urrent Commercial Banking.
TD Bank Group – Q1 2022 Earnings Call Transcript – March 3, 2022 Page 14 of 23 - - Ebrahim Poonawala – BofA Securities – Analyst eo Salom – TD – President and CEO, TD Bank America's Most Convenient Bank Eb rahim Poonawala – BofA Securities – Analyst Mi chael Rhodes – T D – Group Head, Canadian Personal Banking Raymond Chun – TD – Group Head, Wealth and Insurance Got it. So, do you expect, a nd I'm looking at ex-PP P business loans, we should ex pect mid to high-single di git type of loan growth that your peers are talking about or not? I w ould expect that we would see gradual improvement quarter-on-quart er, and we should be able to get t o loan growth levels that we're achieving pre-COVID. Got it. And I guess just one question on Canadian Retail. Mike, we saw revenues up 6%, expenses up 8%. As we think about the outlook for the rest of the year, just give us a sense of how you're thinking about operating leverage going forward and any puts and takes around drivers of expense growth versus wher e you see potential savings? Okay. So, I'll start out with this. So, in terms of the expense growth in Canadian Retail and you referenced the 8% , you have to disaggregate that a bit, because there are components be tween Wealth and Insurance and the Canadian Personal and Commercial Bank. You look at the last page of the supp pack, t here's actually a breakdown of the Canadian Personal Bank, which actually shows about a 4% expense gr owth, if my memory is correct on a year-over-year basis, and that's between Paul and myself. The op erating leverage of that is strong and look, we continue to keep on investing in the business, and we w ould expect to generate positive operating leverage on an ongoing basis, obviously some puts and tak es here and there. I hope I could make that dis aggregation to see that. And then, Ray, maybe I'd act ually hand it over to you to kind of talk about some of the dynamics you have, because I gave one piec e of the equation, you're the other piece. Sure, Michael. Ebrahim, it's Ray. From a Wealth and Insurance perspective, on a year-on-y ear, expenses were up 14%, and it's mainly driven by investments in really the right areas across both Wealth and Ins urance to drive better exceptional client experiences, new acquisition and accelera te our growth. And one thing I'll do is, I'll just remind e veryone that TD Wealth results include the Direct Investing business, whi ch do impact our reported earnings and expenses. So, in Wealth, expense growth was mainly driven by the v ariable compensation due to higher fee- bas ed revenue growth and shift in our revenue mix from transactions to fee- based revenue. Considering that, Wealth earnings remained stable year -on-y ear. Despite Direct Investing trading levels normalizi ng, w hich was down 28% year -on-y ear, which we do anticipate will continue in 2022 ; w e'll call out the trades per day are still double what they were pre pandemic. And so, we're also investing in new products, adding more advisors nationally and investing in digital and technology really to respond to the changing client expectations, while meeting the ever -inc reasing regulatory requirements across Wealth. And I'll just point out , and Bharat called it out, one of the key inv estments that we made in the quarter was the launch of TD Easy Trade, a mobile trading app designed to m ake investing easier and simpler for all new and emerging investors. We launched that in January, and we've seen very strong early uptake in new accounts and net asset growth, which really demonstrates that it's resonating with the emerging investors.
TD Bank Group – Q1 2022 Earnings Call Transcript – March 3, 2022 Page 15 of 23 - I'd say on the Wealth side, although expenses are up, our Q1 results de monstrate the strength of our di versified Wealth business model. If I shift to TD Insurance, the business continues to grow and in there, w e're making the right investments to support the number one direct -to-consumer insurer in Canada. And t hat includes increased investments in marke ting, building leading digital capabilities. And we made a s ignificant investment in our insurance advisors in our contact centers to ensure we're delivering exceptional ex periences that will deepen our customer relationship. So, I hope that gives you a sense of where we're making investments, Ebrahim, on both Wealth and Insurance. Ebrahim Poonawala – BofA Securities – A nalyst That was helpful. And I guess, is the net of that that we should see the efficiency ratio improve year -ov er year versus the 43.1% last year, or unclear where that may shake out? aymond Chun – TD – Group Head, Wealth and Insurance Yeah. So, I think it depends on the number of assumptions that you're going to have over the next sort of w hile, because other than volume growth, you're going to have your expectations on where r ates are goi ng to be. And then, I would say also, if you look at last year, the peak trading revenue was ac tually in Q2. So, you're going to see another quarter like that. But our goal is to generate positive operating l everage in the medium-term. John Aiken – Barclays Capital – Analyst Good afternoon. Couple quick questions, Kelvin, on the interest rate sensitivity. A couple of the banks have ac tually produced year two impacts from rising rates. Are you actually able to provide any order of magnitude in terms of what the impact might be on TD's stated sensitivity for year two? elvin Tran – TD – Chief Financial Officer Sure. So, in terms of 100 basis point shock increase in interest rate acro ss the curve on a static balance sheet, our number would be CAD 2.8 billion. But I would say just a little bit of caution on how you use that numb er, because as you k now, the assumption there is a 100 basis point increase across the entire curve, r ight. And as you know, when forward rate changes, whatever you've seen so far, people expect the short end of the curve to increase. But the longer end of the curve has not i ncreased by that much. o, you have to take that into account. And then, the other thing to take into account is what we've talked abou t in the past is your o n and off rates, because as your hedges mature or your investments mature in t erms of rate, you need to think about how those rates mature versus the new rate that you put on. Hopefully t hat answers your question. John Aiken – Barclays Capital – Analyst Yeah. No. Understood, Kelvin. Thank you. And ju st one follow-on. I know you've been exceptionally busy ov er the last little while, but have you had a chance to take a look at interest rate sensitivity disclosures for First Horizon and how they're calculated? And would you anticipate any m ajor differences that you've ac tually been able to dive into the weeds or should we take those rate sensitivities is fairly similar to how D calculates them?
TD Bank Group – Q1 2022 Earnings Call Transcript – March 3, 2022 Page 16 of 23 Kelvin Tran – TD – Chief Financial Officer Yes. We looked at their interest rate sensitivity and we're comfortable with including those into our model. e know that they do hedge their balance sheet as well. And a s we work through the integration plan, we w ould look at that and take into account and how we're going to operationalize it. aul Holden – CIBC World Markets – A nalyst First question is going back to Mike and really appreciate the candid answers on the residential mortgage oppor tunity. And I guess I want to ask you a broader question as you think about the Canadian Retail ank as a whole, has there been any evidence of deterioration in market share more broadly or maybe something out on its head? Do you see broader opportunities to catch up and surpass peers? Mi chael Rhodes – TD – Group Head, Canadian Personal Banking Paul, it's a good question, and actually it's good, I mean, to do a pull up and take a look overall. Look, I'd s ay, first of all, t hat there are a lot of things we're very, very pleased with – which i ncludes the Canadian Personal Bank, and including share increases and some things that really matter. If you take a look at our depos it franchise, our deposit franchise share gain on a year -ov er-year basis is actually quite attractive, and we're getting the right types of deposits. And so, we like that. The other thing we look at , and I'm here with my friend Ray across the table from me, is that we're gaining share in deposits at the same time we're act ually creating our mutual fund referrals. And in fact, a mutual fund origination we have during the quarter has been very, very strong. And so, we're very pleased with that. In fact, we call ourselves market leading w ith a combination of both our deposit business and our mutual fund generation. f you look at the other asset classes and if you look and say at the cards business as an example, I looked at everyone's competitive data and everyone's in a reasonably tight range. But if you look at our spend, it's up 23% on a year -ov er -year basis and it's actually definitely up over pre- pa ndemic periods. And we're f eeling good about how we're positioned with cards and we expect to see growth there. And overall, there i s a lot to like ab out our deposits and our Retail franchise. We have the best physical network in the marketplace. We have the number one position and 79% of all markets with 500,000 people or more in the anadian marketplace. We have more web traffic. We have number one share of voice on social chann els and we've got a great, great frontline, very purpose- driven, taking care of the customer every single d ay. nd as I say, look, we have opportunities in RESL, I agree with that. And with cards, we were number one mar ket share. We're not right now, bu t you may know I have a lot of cards ex perience and I'm looking forward to recapturing that position. Paul Holden – CIBC World Markets – A nalyst Thanks for that. And then, question for Leo, sort of similar strategic opportunity type question. I mean, arguably TD is underpenetrated in US Wealth Management. I think now $41 billion of AUA, which was r elatively small given the footprint there. Any indications you can give us on the ability to grow that piece of the US business? And is there anything in First Horizon that helps on that venture? eo Salom – TD – President and CEO, TD Bank America's Most Convenient Bank aul, thank you very much for the question. As you know, I spent last 10 years running our Wealth franchise here in Canada and I'd say we've got enormous opportunity in the US. I'd say fundamentally, when you think we've got 9.5 million Retail clients, the mass affluent and high net worth skew o n that is as much as 35% of the overall book. The ability to bring , syst ematically, f inancial planning and other mass affluent investment s olutions to that client base, both in the stores and via other direct digital platforms is very compelling. We've been building out that team. In fact, we added over 130 advisors in just over the past 12 months. We wil l
TD Bank Group – Q1 2022 Earnings Call Transcript – March 3, 2022 Page 17 of 23 accelerate that pace, because I believe that we need to achieve a critical mass of advisors to support our Retail mass affluent clients. And likewise, I think the high- net-worth opportunity and the partnership with the Commercial Bank , making sure that we're bringing not only Commercial Banking solutions, but bringing along the business transfer sol utions and the other wealth management, investment management solutions, and to do th at at scale and consistently is going to be a big priority for us. So, as I think about trying to build out the fee business in the , our wealth management opportunity has got to be one of the most significant levers that we're going to pull . Paul Holden – CIBC World Markets – A nalyst Great. I feel like we're going to be asking about this more often. One final question again Leo for you, the Bank closed a number of stores roughly a year ago, right, early 2021. Noticed that the store count thou gh grown in each of the last two quarters, maybe you can sort of give us a sense of what the strategy is there? I'm assuming it's into new geographies, and maybe you can just kind of clarify that? Le o Salom – TD – President and CEO, TD Bank America's Most Convenient Bank Pau l, that's absolutely right. So, think of – when we do store optimizations, it's us looking at the entire network and deciding where we could potentially consolidate certain locations. I'm still keeping the client at the center of that decision, but then redeploying those investment dollars into geographies that have hig her growth profiles and with a view on densification, something that we're very proud of is that, 79% of our deposit base are in markets that we're either in number one, two or three. And the only way you can do that is by being very purposeful around thinking through your distribution network and investing around cer tain MSAs and achieving critical mass. I'd say I know we talk a great deal about the branch network there, and that was the basis of your quest ion, Paul. But I'd say the investments we're making in digital marketing and digital acquisition are als o critically important in terms of being able to achieve the full potential of our branch network. And ther e, I have to say I'm extremely pleased with what the US team has been able to do over the past two or t hree years. We are a leader in terms of customer checking account acquisition in the United States and to t he extent that we can get that network model right bring digital marketing to bear and maximize our pr esence in the marketplace. I think that'll put us in a very good position. Sc ott Chan – Canaccord Genuity – Analyst Leo, just a couple of follow-up questions on First Horizon. How big is our wealth management platform? So, I kind of read wealth management solutions, but I don't know if you can kind of help quantify it? Le o Salom – TD – President and CEO, TD Bank America's Most Convenient Bank Sc ott, to give you a sense, their total revenue base, if I strip out what is the institutional trust business, it's compar able to ours. It's a little smaller than ours, but in terms of the model that they run, they run a brok erage RIA model very similar to ours. They partner in their structure, their wealth advisors are very ali gned to the Commercial Bank and they create a very effective partnership, almost a deal team around cer tain clients, and they've been very successful in growing their Wealth business using that model. We' ve historically leveraged the Retail network and the Retail alignment piece. So, I think there's a complementary aspect to their model that we can leverage over time, but clearly bringing those two
TD Bank Group – Q1 2022 Earnings Call Transcript – March 3, 2022 Page 18 of 23 groups together and obviously continuing to invest in our wealth distribution, our coverage will be a pr iority. Scott Chan – Canaccord Genuity – Analyst And you talked about the Wealth opportunity, but when I look at the AUM on US side, I would sense that ther e is a significant opportunity there, but every time I look at it, it's always declining and significantly underper forming peers in terms of assets. And maybe you can update on why that's happening and is ther e anything strategic or anything or any initiatives going on with that platform? Leo Salom – TD – President and CEO, TD Bank America's Most Convenient Bank Sc ott, I think there's two things. When you look at the AUM number, we do run an asset manager in the US and I can certainly ask Ray to elaborate a little bit more, but the two factors that are weighing on our M level, one is the fact that we don't really run an i ndependent US asset manager. It is part of TD As set Management and TD Asset Management from time to time might balance mandates from one part of our manufacturing plant to another. A nd so, you could see movements between the US and Canada, but that that is independent of our approach in the way we're trying to approach solutions in the mark etplace. The other factor is that Epoch i s much more historically been more aligned to a value orientation. And up unti l recently, that style has been out of favor. Now, we are very encouraged by what we're seeing more recently, where you're starting to see real discrimination in the marketplace and I think that operating model is likely to get much more traction in the short-term. But I've probably stolen some of Ray's t hunder. So, Ray, I don't know if there's anything you'd add to that. Ra ymond Chun – TD – Group Head, Wealth and Insurance No. I think you captured it well, Leo. I think the big opportunity for us will be and have been and it's been a wor k in progress is really to bring Epoch and TD Asset Management together and leverage the expertise that actually is in TD Asset Management, while we grow our US Asset Management business. And so, that will be the work that that we'll do over the next few years on that side of it, but significant opport unities on that side also, Scott. Scott Chan – Canaccord Genuity – Analyst Okay. And just lastly, maybe for Kelvin. it seems like intra-quarter, expenses have been a focus and I thi nk a theme on this call has been investing and you're hiring 2,000 tech people. I wonder if it's all bank level Kelvin, if you can offer some expense guidance, kind of following your fiscal Q1? Kel vin Tran – TD – Chief Financial Officer Yeah. So, we don't like, I think we've talked about that previously, we don't look at expenses on its own. o, our goal again is to look at driving positive operating leverage. And if we do see growth, revenue grow th opportunity, then we would increase our investment. And like we talked about earlier on, there are a few buckets of expenses that we look at. There's the – table stakes, expense that you just need to spend to run the bank and that's one bucket that is always there. And there are strategic expenses that you have to inv est for the long term. So, that's anot her bucket. And then, the last bucket would be more discretionary, but really important, if you see
TD Bank Group – Q1 2022 Earnings Call Transcript – March 3, 2022 Page 19 of 23 that the economy is recovering, you see revenue opportunities, you see rising rate environment and then you w ill dial up those investments to really capture market share, because those opportunities are ripe for the t aking. So, that's where I would leave it. Nigel D'Souza – Analyst – Veritas Investment Research Good a fternoon. I had a question for Ajai, and I wanted to turn to your allowances. So, you noted that your allowances are running at elevated levels relative to pre-COVID. And I'm wondering why we haven't seen a more aggressive release of those allowances? If I look at your forward-lo oking indicators, those have improved. So, wondering why that didn't drive a bigger release. And then, second, based on your guidanc e, should we take from new guidance that these levels s hould be higher this year, that there's a poss ibility you won't be able to fully release those excess allowances before political conditions norma lize? Ajai Bambawale – TD – Group Head and Chief Risk Officer It's a good question, so let me respond. I'll start with allowance and then I'll go back to PCL. So, I'd say the main reason, we haven't released our allowances, because there's still a tremendous amount of uncer tainty. The sources of that uncertainty still are changing. Okay. So, Bharat talked about geopolitics and inf lation. There is – we don't know what the ultimate economic trajectory will be as a result of this war . So, there's quite a bit of uncertainty out there, which is why we're releasing our reserves gradually. Hav ing said that, you're right, if the macro continues to improve, if this uncertainty reduces, we will be r eleasing more reserves. The exact timing of it is very difficult to tell. And t hen, I'll go back to PCL. So, I look at PCLs, what I would say is, I expect a gradual increase in PCLs. And I say that because we think with normalization impaired PCLs are going to rise. Again, I'm not expec ting a sudden increase, but gradual increase in impaired PCL. So, we feel that is going to happen. he reason we're saying the number could be higher is that performing PCL, that could be a bumpy ride, okay . And because your various drivers of performing PCL, there's volume, there's migration, there's parameters, there's macro. So, you're right in saying, I can't say for sure we're not going to release the res erves. It's not predetermined. But the reason we are being cautious in what we're saying is that perf orming PCL and what happens with that is going to be a bit bumpy. So, I hope that's helpful to you. Ni gel D'Souza – Analyst – Veritas Investment Research That 's very helpful. And if I could just focus on one variable here in your forward- lo oking indicators. When we l ook at your policy, central bank policy, interest rate assumption, base case versus upside scenario, your upside scenario assumes a higher policy rate. Now, can you help me understand why that is? Bec ause I would think that assumption of a higher policy rate would be an adverse scenario, because it inc reases debt servicing costs. So, could you just explain that? Aj ai Bambawale – TD – Group Head and Chief Risk Officer Yeah. For upside, again, these scenarios are developed by economists. We use an overheated economy and there's high inflation, but there's high interest rates as well. So, we actually assume in Canada, rates go up 15 0 basis points and, in the US,, 125 basis points. Our downside case here is a pretty stringent cas e. It's a global slump. And in that case, the inflation unwinds quite fast. But our base case as well, we do ass ume high inflation in the base case. It's almost – I think it starts out being around 6% for the US at Q4 and then sort of tapers off from there, but it's the assumptions we made for the upside case and an overheated economy is what we're assuming.
TD Bank Group – Q1 2022 Earnings Call Transcript – March 3, 2022 Page 20 of 23 Nigel D'Souza – Analyst – Veritas Investment Research kay. So, any comments on then a stagflationary scenario, if you have high interest rates and decelerating growth? How does that affect your credit loss model ing? Ajai Bambawale – TD – Group Head and Chief Risk Officer Yeah. Good, good question. So, what I would tell you is we're giving it a lot of thought and we are going to be r unning some stagflation scenarios this year. And it is a plausible scenario. We would be concerned w ith that kind of a scenario and we're doing more work on that front right now. ohrab Movahedi – Analyst – BMO Capital Markets I just wanted maybe to do a couple of cleanup questions. I'll start off with Leo. You talked about the oppor tunity, or maybe Ray, and you both talked about the opportunities between TD Asset Management poch and really leveraging the franchise in the US. What's unique about this? Is it just a new set of eyes l ooking at this or have these opportunities always been there and the focus wasn't or is there a particular r eason why the next 12 months will be better than the last 12 months, so to speak? eo Salom – TD – President and CEO, TD Bank America's Most Convenient Bank Sure, I can certainly start. This is Leo. I'd say that the reality is, if you look at the growth trajectory of the US business over time, whether it'd be expanding the footprint, adding capabilities, the US has been on a journey to round out its core capabilities for some time. We just think this is a terrific opportunity to lean into the Wealth lever. Both Ray and I worked together for many years. I think we see clearly an op portunity in the US mar ketplace from a demographic standpoint. think we 've got the capabilities. We just implemented a next -ge neration advisor support platform, which w e're really excited about, that went into production just a month- and-a-ha lf ago. And so, we're making the i nvestments to be able to scale that business. And, having looked after the Wealth business for 10 years in anada, I look at the US opportunity and in many ways, I see it as larger. Certainly , as a growth contributor, I see it as a very significant opportunity. ohrab Movahedi – Analyst – BMO Capital Markets And Leo, you mentioned the addition of advisors. When these advisors come on, how long before they are productive? Leo Salom – TD – President and CEO, TD Bank America's Most Convenient Bank Well, I think it depends on whether you're talking about mass affluent or high-n et -worth, learning curve is a l ittle different on each and whether you're trying to build from within or you're hiring seasoned advisors. So, wouldn't want to speculate on what will we try to do in the mass affluent space. We try to take some of our s trong retail talent, put them through a bit of an internal investment academy, prepare them for their l icensing, both on an RIA as well as a Series 7 license, and then prepare them to be able to deliver against a financial planning framework as opposed to a brokerage framework. And we 've been quite successful w ith that operating model and if anything, what I want to do is try to accelerate that. n the high-net-worth space, we tend to bring individuals on board and recruit individuals that are seasoned. And so, the learning curve there is much shorter. They're really learning how to opera te within TD as
TD Bank Group – Q1 2022 Earnings Call Transcript – March 3, 2022 Page 21 of 23 opposed to how to be able to de liver against client expectations. And so, I would say there, the key is just maki ng sure that you're creating, you're identifying, you're recruiting top talent. And I think TD, when a advi sor thinks of TD and they think of our network, they think of our presence, where we operate, our client base, it's an extremely attractive proposition for an advisor to want to bring that investment capability to bear o n our client base. And that's our proposition when we're hiring. So hrab Movahedi – Analyst – BMO Capital Markets Okay. And then, Ajai, for you, can you just talk a little bit about the efforts that you and your team would have p ut in around the due diligence for the First Horizon acquisition, maybe the number of weeks you wer e involved, hours spent, percentage of the book reviewed, number of accounts, that kind of stuff. Thank you. Ajai Bambawale – TD – Group Head and Chief Risk Officer Sure. I'll make a few comments. What I would tell you is that at the Bank, we have a tried and tested due dil igence framework. We've used it for many acquisitions. We used it here again. It was detailed. It was thor ough. There were teams from across the Bank that have been involved in the whole process. So, this is not just risk, but everyone and including risk, there were quite a few people, I don't have exact numbers with the US team, the Canadian team as well were involved. So, I'm quite satisfied that the process was robus t, and the outcome is a good outcome for the bank. And does that address your question? In terms of ho urs, I can give you a little bit of color, if you want. Sohrab Movahedi – Analyst – BMO Capital Markets Yeah, I'd like to know, did you spend a thousand hours, was it 200 hours from a risk perspective? Di d you rev iew 80% of the largest accounts or did you review 50% of the industry groups, I'd like a little bit, if y ou have it handy. Ajai Bambawale – TD – Group Head and Chief Risk Officer Well, I'll give you a little bit of color. We looked at quite a few files. I'd say approximately 20% of the files were reviewed by us and we were very thoughtful in our approach on what files we wanted to review and we were satisfied based on the file review that the credit quality here at First Horizon was entirely acceptable and w e just didn't do a file review. We looked at credit policies, we looked at underwriting standards, we compar ed them to ours. So, all that led us to the conclusion that across their Retail book, which is largely SL, C&I, which is a big book and of course, CRE as well, that the underwriting standards and quality, and the team, future TD colleagues, we were quite pleased with that. So, I hope that helps. Bh arat Masrani – TD – Group President and CEO Sohrab, just to add. This is the core strength of TD, how we do acquisitions. There's a whole process. We follow, the number of people involved, who is going to be involved, who's going to be leading each of the teams . So, it's a very thorough process that has been reviewed by many, many stakeholders that feel ver y comfortable as to how this particular due diligence was carried and what kind of results we got out of it. Mike Rizvanovic – Analyst – Stifel Nicolaus Hi . Good afternoon. I want to go back to Leo, on the overdraft fees. So, what I'm wondering is, how conc erned are you that this fee line and appreciate the added color on the new guidance, but how
TD Bank Group – Q1 2022 Earnings Call Transcript – March 3, 2022 Page 22 of 23 concerned are you that this may actually end up going to zero if you're thinking one or two years out? Just wi th respect to seeing more banks actually eliminate this fee altogether, and it's just hard for me to unders tand how we could get this divergence where some banks charge the fee and others don't. So, how c oncerned would you be that that there's more downside here on that fee line ? eo Salom – TD – President and CEO, TD Bank America's Most Convenient Bank Mi ke, thanks for the question. I'd say our objective when we launched the TD Essential checking account was in fact to provide clients with a product that would give them a zero overdraft option. So, it was by desi gn. And now, we give clients choice, whether they want the TD Essential checking product or they want our core checking. From our standpoint, I think choice is what's critical. Obviously, we'll continue to monitor the market with regar ds to how things develop. We need to be competitive and obviously to the extent that we believe we need t o revisit that, we would. But at this point in time, we feel very comfortable with the decisions we made. Mike Rizvanovic – Analyst – Stifel Nicolaus Ok ay. Appreciate that. And then, maybe a quick one for Ray. Just wanted to ask about the Insurance rev enue being so strong. Obviously, I would suspect part of that is driven by the fact that you're the only Cana dian bank that underwrites P&C insurance and you've outperformed your peers quite a bit here. I'm wond ering how much of that do you think possibly comes back as driving returns to normal, auto claims st art to return to normal, what's the sort of downside, if you can quantify that would be helpful? Ra ymond Chun – TD – Group Head, Wealth and Insurance Thanks, Mike, for the question. And I'd say, our Insurance business, as you said, just continues to grow and tak e market share. And before I get there, I mean, just to give you a sense to your question, TDI is, I mean, where our earnings are very strong, earnings were up 15% year-on-year, core revenue growth of 8%. And that's really on the strength of our underwriting, our pricing sophistication and claims excellence. nd so, that's when you overlay the fact that Q1 was an unusually high catastrophe activit y for this quar ter, it's actually the highest cat quarter since 2014 for Q1. So, we have been monitoring closely the easi ng of the COVID-19 p ublic health restrictions across the country and pandemic has certainly imp acted driving behavior, and it continues to disrupt the supply chain, I would say, in the auto sales, new auto sales and certainly in the auto parts industry. And so, we're watching that carefully. But in addition to this, claims are also impacted, as you know, by many other factors and seasonal ity bei ng one, weather events. And I think you would have all have seen that over the last few years, we've expand ed our market leading auto centers across the country, and certainly that will help us as driving ret urns. And we do anticipate that as COVID dissipates, that driving will resume to pre- pandemic levels, and w e do anticipate their claims or claims are going to normalize. And I think the advantage that we have i s that we'll have over the course of this year 28 auto centers across the country handl ing abo ut 40% to 50% of our auto claims, which is a real advantage from a client experience and from a claims manage ment. Bharat Masrani – TD – Group President and CEO Great engagement on the questions. Great job by the team here at TD. Folks are in new positions, but you c an see that they certainly are well prepared and raring to go. So, terrific to see that. From my pers pective, a great start to the year. Very happy with how we are performing in various lines. You saw what our opportunities are. We had a good discussion on that and really, really excited about the
TD Bank Group – Q1 2022 Earnings Call Transcript – March 3, 2022 Page 23 of 23 announced acquisition of First Horizon. It takes our business in the US to a new level. As to the opport unity, very, very exciting. So, we're happy to report that, we will get some of these busi nesses where we've lagged back to where TD normally is and the pandemic certainly has had an outsized impact on us b ecause of our brand-cent ric model, particularly in Canada. Bef ore we close, I'd like to take this opportunity to thank Gillian Manning as she heads off to a new role w ith TD Asset Management. Over the last few years, Gillian has built a strong and award- wi nning IR team that is respected by our analysts and investors. I'd like to thank Gillian for her leadership and wish her all t he best at TD Asset Management. I'm also delighted to welcome Brooke Hales as our new Head of IR, and she's off to a flying start, having just done her second call in one week. Thanks for joining us and we'll t alk to you all again in 90 days. Thank you.